### 18.11.1 HandlerExceptionResolver

Spring`HandlerExceptionResolver`implementations deal with unexpected exceptions that occur during controller execution. A`HandlerExceptionResolver`somewhat resembles the exception mappings you can define in the web application descriptor`web.xml`. However, they provide a more flexible way to do so. For example they provide information about which handler was executing when the exception was thrown. Furthermore, a programmatic way of handling exceptions gives you more options for responding appropriately before the request is forwarded to another URL \(the same end result as when you use the Servlet specific exception mappings\).

Besides implementing the`HandlerExceptionResolver`interface, which is only a matter of implementing the`resolveException(Exception, Handler)`method and returning a`ModelAndView`, you may also use the provided`SimpleMappingExceptionResolver`or create`@ExceptionHandler`methods. The`SimpleMappingExceptionResolver`enables you to take the class name of any exception that might be thrown and map it to a view name. This is functionally equivalent to the exception mapping feature from the Servlet API, but it is also possible to implement more finely grained mappings of exceptions from different handlers. The`@ExceptionHandler`annotation on the other hand can be used on methods that should be invoked to handle an exception. Such methods may be defined locally within an`@Controller`or may apply to many`@Controller`classes when defined within an`@ControllerAdvice`class. The following sections explain this in more detail.

