### 15.1.2Package hierarchy

The Spring Framework’s JDBC abstraction framework consists of four different packages, namely`core`,`datasource`,`object`, and`support`.

The`org.springframework.jdbc.core`package contains the`JdbcTemplate`class and its various callback interfaces, plus a variety of related classes. A subpackage named`org.springframework.jdbc.core.simple`contains the`SimpleJdbcInsert`and`SimpleJdbcCall`classes. Another subpackage named`org.springframework.jdbc.core.namedparam`contains the`NamedParameterJdbcTemplate`class and the related support classes. See[Section15.2, “Using the JDBC core classes to control basic JDBC processing and error handling”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-core),[Section15.4, “JDBC batch operations”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-advanced-jdbc), and[Section15.5, “Simplifying JDBC operations with the SimpleJdbc classes”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-simple-jdbc).

The`org.springframework.jdbc.datasource`package contains a utility class for easy`DataSource`access, and various simple`DataSource`implementations that can be used for testing and running unmodified JDBC code outside of a Java EE container. A subpackage named`org.springfamework.jdbc.datasource.embedded`provides support for creating embedded databases using Java database engines such as HSQL, H2, and Derby. See[Section15.3, “Controlling database connections”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-connections)and[Section15.8, “Embedded database support”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-embedded-database-support).

The`org.springframework.jdbc.object`package contains classes that represent RDBMS queries, updates, and stored procedures as thread-safe, reusable objects. See[Section15.6, “Modeling JDBC operations as Java objects”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-object). This approach is modeled by JDO, although objects returned by queries are naturally_disconnected_from the database. This higher level of JDBC abstraction depends on the lower-level abstraction in the`org.springframework.jdbc.core`package.

The`org.springframework.jdbc.support`package provides`SQLException`translation functionality and some utility classes. Exceptions thrown during JDBC processing are translated to exceptions defined in the`org.springframework.dao`package. This means that code using the Spring JDBC abstraction layer does not need to implement JDBC or RDBMS-specific error handling. All translated exceptions are unchecked, which gives you the option of catching the exceptions from which you can recover while allowing other exceptions to be propagated to the caller. See[Section15.2.3, “SQLExceptionTranslator”](http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.0.M5/spring-framework-reference/html/jdbc.html#jdbc-SQLExceptionTranslator).

